you guys I'm going to try to show you
hopefully a simple way to take the
airbags off of these cars
this is front steering wheels from a 98
Passat no multifunction controls or
anything like that just a basic steering
wheel with the airbag essentially what
you're trying to do is there's these
little spikes on the airbag they're kind
of retaining spikes see if I can get you
a decent shot of it there right so what
you're trying to do is just kind of
clear a spring off of that spike it
doesn't take a lot of leverage to do but
down in the middle of this guess horn
retention spring or something whatever
it's called it's got a name I'm sure and
the Germans do that there's this little
bar that's spring-loaded and you're just
trying to slide it out of the way so
that it'll clear those spikes so let's
give you a quick demonstration through
the airbag on there clipped in place and
there's two guides in the back of these
things there's one that goes this way
and then one that goes this way follow
this one so imagine this sorry it's not
on the car obviously but this is where
the steering column would be and if this
was facing up like they tell you to
rotate it 90 degrees so this is upwards
you want to put it so this handle is
facing your steering column you want to
make sure that you keep putting it in
that way you'll feel it just kind of
jiggle it around and I'll get in between
those two channels and when you get it
all the way in all you're going to do is
just take the handle and then lift up on
it of course I did this there we go
you'll see you'll feel it kind of spring
free there this spring will help push it
out and we'll try to do it on the other
side too here again imagine this is
facing upward on the car so you're
putting the handle towards the steering
column slide it in there let's see
there we go of course that's really safe
with the live air bag too sorry about
that but that's the that's the gist of
it I found that this size screwdriver
works best anything longer than this and
I ended up damaging my gauge cluster if
the handle got gets caught up on the
glass and you can't get the proper angle
you need back here you can see when you
put it in if it's all the way in there
still clearance in there right they're
still in what half an inch of clearance
so that's all you really need anything
longer and again your gauge cluster will
get in the way and you can't you won't
be able to get it in there right you
probably won't be able to see it on here
but uh maybe probably not but that
little bar doesn't take a lot to slide
it out of the way and once you do slide
it out of the way again the spring here
is going to help pop it up I know it can
be a pain when it's on the car but
hopefully this helps out a little bit
yeah so that's it again tiny little
screw driver and there's guides in here
this is where your con Center column
would be and that would be facing up 90
degrees to expose those holes and again
it just goes in at a slight angle like
that gets you an idea and that's about
as far in it's about as far in as it's
going to go right there alright that's
it and then I hope and then you just
lift up on it and then I'll move that
spring out of the way alright hope this
helps guys see